11 Ways to Improve B2B Sales
Linearity
Jeremey Donovan | February 24, 2022| 1 min. read
Back
Every sales organization is hyper-focused on achieving its overall booking goals
for a given period. However, far too many organizations find their bookings are
jammed up on the last day of the last week of the last month of the last quarter of
the year. The antidote to this problem is sales linearity, which ensures deals get
closed smoothly over the course of the year.
Sales linearity is not only focused on the speed and consistency of deals over a
measurable timeframe. It also is key to sales planning and forecasting, since
leaders must know which segments are over-and under-performing prior to
making additional investments in their revenue organizations.
Here we provide a set of options to help you build sales linearity into your
revenue engine.
Process Improvements
1. Instill Pipeline Discipline
All too many sales leaders take it as a given that they need to get more involved
and/or turn up the heat at the end of the quarter. Consequently, they become
principle contributors to non-linearity.
Instead, sales leaders should inspect deals on a disciplined, weekly cadence.
Managers must check deal health. This includes every MEDDICC factor every
BUILDING LOCALL Y , SCALING GLOBALL Y
Navigating international expansion for European founders
VIEW REPORT
By clicking “ Accept All Cookies”
, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze
site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. We use cookies on this site to enhance your experience. Visit our Privacy
Policy for more info.
Customize
Accept All Cookies
8/15/24, 8:56 PM 11 Ways to Improve B2B Sales Linearity | Insight Partners
https://www.insightpartners.com/ideas/11-ways-to-improve-b2b-sales-linearity/ 1/5
time, the opportunity amount, and the close date. Managers must constructively
confront representatives whose closing dates are pegged to the last day of the
quarter or the first day of the following quarter.
2. Move to Monthly Quotas
If the sales organization follows quarterly quotas, then non-linearity should come
as no surprise. Moving to monthly quotas is a viable solution but does come with
added planning overhead. This is because it requires resetting incentives and
accelerators at a faster cadence and in the face of stronger seasonality.
3. Demand Smoothing – Inbound
For companies with tightly distributed sales cycles (relatively rare), the solution to
non-linearity starts with ensuring top-of-funnel marketing expenditure to drive
inbound leads from search engine marketing (SEM) or social advertising is more
smoothly distributed.
4. Demand Smoothing – Outbound
Sales teams routinely fall into a vicious cycle of prospecting heavily during the first
month of each quarter, achieving a healthy mix of prospecting and advancing
deals in the second month, and then focusing almost exclusively on closing in the
final month.
Echoing the process discipline discussed above, sales managers and leaders are
responsible for inspecting the entire pipeline for each rep on a regular basis.
[Caveat: Managers cannot simply demand that representatives create a certain
number of operations per week or month since that will simply inject garbage into
the pipeline and lower win rates.]
Sales Incentives
5. Recognition
Sales professionals are both extrinsically and intrinsically motivated. Handing out
quarterly linearity awards (independent of financial benefits) can have a powerful
impact.
6. P-Club Upgrades
President’s or Achiever’s or Chairperson’s Club – aka Winner Circle – qualification
is a powerful motivator for salespeople. They not only get bragging rights with
colleagues, friends, and on their résumé but also can show off for their “plus-one.
”
While one does not want to create too much P-Club incentive complexity, one
idea is to link linearity to various upgrades such as first-class airplane tickets or
rooms with a view.
7. SPIFs
Pay for your linearity. Consider offering either fixed cash amounts or experiences
(dinner for two, event tickets, etc.) for deals that close in the first or second month
of the quarter.
8. Quota Credit Multipliers or Added Commission
Rather than fixed amounts, you can offer quota credit multipliers for added
commission on deals that close earlier in the quarter. This is ranked slightly lower
than SPIFs since fixed amounts or gifts are easier to administer. However, an
added benefit of this idea is that it is easier to increase the incentive by month. For
BUILDING LOCALL Y , SCALING GLOBALL Y
Navigating international expansion for European founders
VIEW REPORT
By clicking “ Accept All Cookies”
, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze
site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. We use cookies on this site to enhance your experience. Visit our Privacy
Policy for more info.
8/15/24, 8:56 PM 11 Ways to Improve B2B Sales Linearity | Insight Partners
https://www.insightpartners.com/ideas/11-ways-to-improve-b2b-sales-linearity/ 2/5
instance, one could give a 1.5x multiplier or +3% commission in month one, then a
1.25x multiplier or +1.5% commission in month two.
Gainsight’s Caitlin Quinlan, SVP of Revenue Operations, and Jeff Depa, Chief
Revenue Officer, shared a highly successful pacing strategy their team applied
that dramatically smoothed bookings: If a sales executive achieves at least 50%
of their quarterly quota by the end of the second month, then they move into
accelerators on their remaining attainment for the period. To prevent sellers who
have not achieved the threshold from pushing deals into the following quarter,
Gainsight only pays the accelerated rate on deals with sales cycles shorter than a
set limit.
Client Actions
9. Early Renewals with New End Dates
As businesses mature, they often drive a substantially higher percentage of
bookings from expansion of existing relationships than they do from new business.
Seeking early renewals with new end dates for healthy clients and/or those
seeking mid-contract upgrades offers an attractive way to improve linearity. A
related, albeit unconventional, alternative would be to renew clients with 13-
month or 14-month contracts.
10. Upgrades
Accelerating urgency by offering a complimentary product or service upgrade
often works in more transactional selling situations with shorter sales cycles.
However, if your sales cycle is long or your process is complex, be aware that it is
close to impossible to pull back a “freebie” once offered.
11. Discounts
Offering financial discounts is another way to improve linearity; however, it should
be viewed as a last option. As with upgrades, these are difficult to rescind without
creating animosity. Worse, discounts run counter to value-selling and tend to
contract margins more than complimentary upgrades do. Similar to the 13- or
14-month contract idea mentioned above, one could offer “14 for 12” contracts
in month one of a quarter and/or “13 for 12” contracts in month two. In other
words, buy 12 months and get 1 or 2 months free.
Final Thoughts
By applying one or more of the 11 concepts above, based on which is most
suitable to your organization, you will enhance your sales linearity. If linearity
incentives are too strong, representatives can become pushy, which destroys trust
and can scuttle deals. Proceed mindfully.


*******


From Sales Rep to CRO: Zscaler
'
s, Dali Rajic
'
s
Advice on Climbing the Sales Leadership Ladder
Whether you
'
re a rep who was recently promoted into sales management or an existing sales
leader who wants to further climb the ladder, you
'
ve looked into your bathroom mirror at any given
point and asked yourself,
"Am I ready? Can I really do this? What if I fail?" Imposter syndrome
smothers us like a cold wet blanket in the middle of winter when you don
't expect it. In order to
escape, we frantically seek out approval from our peers, friends, and loved ones in hopes they can
boost our ego so we can pick ourselves up and get back into the fight with the confidence that was
temporarily lost.
We
'
ve all been there.
The truth is, we all have a lot learn and nobody has completely mastered the current role they
'
re in.
And they sure as hell haven
't mastered the one they
'
re striving to get. This discomfort is often what
drives us. It'
s also what gets us down. A great way to get out of a slump or to stay on top is to
continually educate ourselves. Advice not often shared in sales is how we should define the
different layers of sales management and what strategies and actions we should be taking within
each of these roles.
Someone who has come as close as it gets to mastering these layers is Zscaler
'
s Dali Rajic.
8/15/24, 8:44 PM From Sales Rep to CRO: Zscaler's, Dali Rajic's Advice on Climbing the Sales Leadership Ladder
https://www.jameswpurvis.com/single-post/from-sales-rep-to-cro-zscaler-s-dali-rajic-s-advice-on-climbing-the-sales-leadership-ladder 1/6
Dali began his sales career as a rep at The Standard Register back in 1995, got his first sales
leadership role 11 years later at Verint and starting cashing in on his success. He found his groove
and climbed the ranks at BMC Software over the next 3 years and in 2012, Dali moved over to the
hot startup App Dynamics as an Area Vice President. Here is where he really made a name for
himself as he ascended all the way to the top as CRO and helped them achieve a $3.7B exit to
Cisco. Since then, he took his CRO title over to Zscaler and now leads as a Chief Operating Officer.
It'
s safe to say, there is A TON we can learn from Mr. Rajic and this post is aimed to help us sellers
shove that imposter syndrome aside for a minute and gain some useful knowledge as we
investigate our next step in the sales leadership stairway.
Luckily for us, Dali joined the Revenue Builder Podcast hosted by five time CRO John McMahon
and Force Management'
s John Kaplan and shared his guide to sales leadership success as we
8/15/24, 8:44 PM From Sales Rep to CRO: Zscaler's, Dali Rajic's Advice on Climbing the Sales Leadership Ladder
https://www.jameswpurvis.com/single-post/from-sales-rep-to-cro-zscaler-s-dali-rajic-s-advice-on-climbing-the-sales-leadership-ladder 2/6
scale the different roles within the organization from first line manager to CRO.
Here are Dali'
s Best Practices to Consider and the
Pitfalls to Avoid as You Move Up in the Sales Org:
First line management role
The one thing he felt he had to learn (there are many) but it would be accomplishing goals and
objectives by working through others.
Best Practices:
Solve objectives through others: Dali calls this,
"
style flex.
" This is having the ability to
work thru others without being demanding of things to get done.
As first line managers, we have tendency to
"know the best path"
since we were
likely highly successful sales reps a short time ago. But it'
s important to
remember that this was only the best path for you.
Build a team by mission, purpose and personal connection.
It'
s ok to be vulnerable: Just because you
'
re in sales management now doesn
't mean you
know everything!
Dali presses that you should create a culture of mutual learning and become a
sounding board for your team.
Admit that you don
't have all the answers (which Dali knows is a hard thing to do).
There are folks on your team who are better than you. Learn from your team.
Create a playbook by collecting all the experiences from your team and other
teams to evolve the playbook.
Pitfall to Avoid:
Don
't build "mini-clones
"
: Not everyone is just like you. You end up pounding on people
who are not like you and that creates a toxic culture.
“If you
’
re just chasing deals quarter in, quarter out, you
’
re
going to burn people out.
"
- Dali Rajic
Second line manager role
When you step into the second line role, it gets harder because it'
s not just individuals and you
can
't be everywhere at the same time. It'
s time to build that first step of General Manager skills.
Best Practices:
8/15/24, 8:44 PM From Sales Rep to CRO: Zscaler's, Dali Rajic's Advice on Climbing the Sales Leadership Ladder
https://www.jameswpurvis.com/single-post/from-sales-rep-to-cro-zscaler-s-dali-rajic-s-advice-on-climbing-the-sales-leadership-ladder 3/6
Be programatic: Things get harder in second line because it'
s not just individuals you have
to understand and manage anymore. You have to be programatic because you can
't scale
yourself.
It'
s important to track progress and efficiencies because you want to maximize
yield as much as possible. Note: There
'
s only 62 real days for any given quarter.
Know your incremental value to the team:
Figure out how to connect to the ecosystem. Build partnerships that move the
needle.
Find gaps without tripling down on rep inspection.
Help the first line manager understand the differentiation between their reps and
accelerate their learning curve.
Ask other leaders for advice (and be naturally curious): Someone else is already doing it.
Ask for their help - there
'
s nothing wrong with that! This has always been a big part of
Dali'
s playbook.
Ask the uncomfortable questions: Managing to risk with the deals, the individuals, and the
team.
Pitfall to Avoid:
Avoid doing what the first line manager always does: A very common trap for second line
leaders is asking the same questions the first line manger does. Reps won
't know your
value and it causes confusion.
“If you get the best people, and if you train and retain them
with a strong sales process, the revenue will come. And if you
understand how to drive that revenue programmatically, you
can maximize how fast it comes and how big it gets.
”
- Dali
Rajic
Third line manager role
You have to be thinking 3-4 quarters and working backwards. You are building out not just this
fiscal year but the following.
Best Practices:
Operational cadence: You need to figure out how to maximize the existing business as
well as create new businesses. Dali believes it'
s key to helping the Sales Managers and
Directors to recruit, retain, and drive the number and build a rhythm.
Connect with the product team: Determine what capabilities to surface up that can bring
home more customers.
8/15/24, 8:44 PM From Sales Rep to CRO: Zscaler's, Dali Rajic's Advice on Climbing the Sales Leadership Ladder
https://www.jameswpurvis.com/single-post/from-sales-rep-to-cro-zscaler-s-dali-rajic-s-advice-on-climbing-the-sales-leadership-ladder 4/6
Build the next phase of the organization: Do this while keeping a pulse on the entire org.
Figure out the ratios of the team in an efficient manner.
Don
't lose touch: Create Advisory groups with SEs, Customer Success, Reps, etc and get
feedback from the ground.
Do it outside the team bubble and compare metrics. What'
s the pulse and why?
Leverage the brilliant minds of the extended team.
Pitfall to Avoid:
Chasing deals. You
'
re no longer chasing the quarter or quarter + 1.
"Look at the overall business and ecosystem that we should be
partnering with. Start thinking like an executive.
"
- Dali Rajic
Fourth line manager role
This is the time to start "Thinking like an executive.
"
Best Practices:
"Think like an executive
"
: You have to start thinking like a CRO - understand the
"Lead to
Cash"journey.
You can do this by becoming intimate with the marketing and finance team. It'
s
one unit for your GTM org.
How to get maximum yield:
Where are you getting the most deals from the campaigns? It'
s time to run
analysis on where investments are producing the largest returns. What profiles?
Regions? Models?
Understanding each region and how marketing aligns in the overall business plan
is crucial. It'
s all about having a clear map of where to spend your resources. Dali
says it'
s like an investment portfolio to maximize yield and sales productivity. It'
s
investments if the far future.
Determining timing on when to become account focused and segmentation
focused is a difficult but a critical decision to make.
Pitfall to Avoid:
Thinking in terms of quarters. It'
s time to think 2-3 years ahead.
“I’
m always wondering why and how something is the way it is,
and don
’t just accept the status quo.
”
- Dali Rajic
CRO
8/15/24, 8:44 PM From Sales Rep to CRO: Zscaler's, Dali Rajic's Advice on Climbing the Sales Leadership Ladder
https://www.jameswpurvis.com/single-post/from-sales-rep-to-cro-zscaler-s-dali-rajic-s-advice-on-climbing-the-sales-leadership-ladder 5/6
Building a powerful squad of lieutenants and a well-oiled revenue operation.
Best Practices:
Build a strong team of lieutenants: Dali stresses that these folks need to have
entrepreneurial minds.
Make bets on people but don
't overstretch them. This is often difficult because
everybody thinks they
'
re more ready than they actually are.
Have a goal of getting people to realize you have their best interest in mind. This
will help others get to where they want to go and they will never leave you.
Ability to recognize that if you have a consistent problem in a certain area, it'
s
likely that it'
s the leader that'
s the issue.
Create a revenue ops team that is strong: He thinks of revenue ops as
"
eyes in the sky
" for
key insights you can utilize. These folks are not just collecting data but interpreting it.
You should create a financial model that if you don
't hit, where can I pull back.
Pitfall to Avoid:
Believing there is time to inspect everything. There
'
s not. Instead, build 3 year plan and
work backwards for key metrics on a quarterly basis.
“We provide a platform and framework, as well as playbooks
that enable salespeople to reach their full potential, with the
patient guidance of leadership.
”
- Dali Rajic
Conclusion:
Dali will tell you, a sales leader doesn
’t have all the answers. It'
s okay to be vulnerable because
getting promoted doesn
't mean you know everything. That'
s a trap. There is a ton of talent on
your team so leverage that by creating a culture of mutual learning allowing for the frequent
exchange of ideas, weighing them, and figure out how to put them into action. You are there to
become a sounding board for the team and learn, evolve your thinking, and start adding
incremental value.
Bye, bye imposter syndrome. You are good enough and right where you should be.

howing 1-12 of 12
The Qualified
Sales Leader
951 ratings
Open Preview
Entrepreneur
67 ratings
E-commerce A
Beginners Guide
to e-commerce
11 ratings
Million Dollar
Ebay And
Amazon Home
Business
7 ratings
All Quotes | Add A Quote
Find quotes by keyword, author Search
More…
Goodreads helps you follow your favorite authors. Be the first to learn about new releases!
Start by following John McMahon.
Follow Author
BOOKS BY JOHN MCMAHON
My Books Browse ▾ Community ▾
Sign up
8/15/24, 8:42 PM John McMahon Quotes (Author of The Qualified Sales Leader)
https://www.goodreads.com/author/quotes/230569.John
_
McMahon#:~:text=If you're not coachable,adapt to the changing environment. 1/3
0 likes
― John McMahon, The Qualified Sales Leader: Proven Lessons from a Five Time
CRO
0 likes
“We all live under the shadow of a three century history that his pitted
color against color and we all need to change. To me there are no people
more capable of that change than people from here. We're not ignorant
of what outsiders think. They see a mix of beautiful mansions from the
1800s, and weeds sky high in the next house over. But for me this area of
the country is heaven. There's not place I'd rather travel than the South
and no place I'd rather live in than Georgia." The Good Detective”
― John McMahon
Like
0 likes
“Found business pain creates opportunity. Quantified business pain
drives higher price points. Implicated business pain drives urgency.
Business pain and urgency finds business Champions. Business
champions get you to the Economic Buyer. The Economic Buyer has
access to major funds. You sell big deals based on value. The opposite is
also true: No discovered pain means a small or no opportunity. No
quantified business pain means no cost justification. No implicated
business pain means no urgency to buy. No business Champion means
no access to the Economic Buyer. No access to the Economic Buyer
means no access to major funds. No access to major funds means either
selling small deals based on product features or selling no deals.”
― John McMahon, The Qualified Sales Leader: Proven Lessons from a Five Time
CRO
Like
0 likes
“Instead of tracking meaningful indicators of deal advancement and
tangible sales process results, they only kept track of activity KPIs such
as: Number of calls Number of emails sent Number of video
introductions Number of POCs”
― John McMahon, The Qualified Sales Leader: Proven Lessons from a Five Time
CRO
Like
0 likes
“Stop confusing activities with accomplishment. Stop pushing reps to
rush through the sales process. Master the customer conversation with
specific personas and use cases. Understand how to sell business value,
using a repeatable process. Learn to qualify deal advancement issues in
account situations. Coach reps on how to control an opportunity.
Understand how to forecast accurately.”
― John McMahon, The Qualified Sales Leader: Proven Lessons from a Five Time
CRO
Like
“Vending. Not selling.”
― John McMahon, The Qualified Sales Leader: Proven Lessons from a Five Time
CRO
Like
My Books Browse ▾ Community ▾
Sign up
8/15/24, 8:42 PM John McMahon Quotes (Author of The Qualified Sales Leader)
https://www.goodreads.com/author/quotes/230569.John
_
McMahon#:~:text=If you're not coachable,adapt to the changing environment. 2/3
0 likes
0 likes
“Coachability and Adaptability Multiple times, I've seen reps who are
either too insecure to admit that they cannot perform a new function or
too fearful of change. They won’t let anyone coach them. If you're not
coachable, you won't learn. If you won’t learn, you won’t adapt.
Adaptability is a critical trait in any rapidly growing company. As your
product, market, competition, and company changes, you'll need people
who are flexible enough to adapt to the changing environment. They'll
need to perform new tasks, learn new products, and develop new skills.”
― John McMahon, The Qualified Sales Leader: Proven Lessons from a Five Time
CRO
Like
0 likes
“Forego’s customer churn was high because they sold too low in
companies for small dollars. Selling small deals at low levels in a
company, without the customer understanding the tangible business
value of the product, causes a high degree of customer churn. If a
customer doesn’t understand the business value of a subscription
product, the customer won’t renew their annual subscription.”
― John McMahon, The Qualified Sales Leader: Proven Lessons from a Five Time

Quantity vs. Quality: Should
We Lower Our Lead Score
Threshold in Order to Send
More MQLs to AEs?
Alison Sullivan, Jeremey Donovan | October 25, 2022| 5 min. read
Back
Lead scoring is a critical tool for scaling companies of all sizes to ensure efficient
funnel performance. However, lead scoring should never be set it and forget it
since it is a key component of funnel health. We encourage Insight Partners
portfolio companies to establish a lead scoring council, co-owned by sales and
marketing, with customer success and, for those with product-led growth (PLG)
motions, Product. This lead scoring council should meet at a minimum quarterly to
assess business performance and stress test the model to ensure that lead
scoring is calibrated based on maximizing lifetime value. This is critical to ensure
that sales and marketing are efficiently converting prospects that create
sustainable lifetime value for the business.
The leadership at one of our portfolio companies recently asked,
“Should we relax
our inbound lead score threshold in order to send more MQLs to our AEs?” There
are several situations in which this is most relevant:
The company wants more at-bats as it recently went on a hiring spree for
both SDR/BDR and AEs
BUILDING LOCALL Y , SCALING GLOBALL Y
Navigating international expansion for European founders
VIEW REPORT
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”
, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze
site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. We use cookies on this site to enhance your experience. Visit our Privacy
Policy for more info.
Customize
Accept All Cookies
8/15/24, 8:56 PM Quantity vs. Quality: Should We Lower Our Lead Score Threshold in Order to Send More MQLs to AEs? | Insight Partners
https://www.insightpartners.com/ideas/quantity-vs-quality-should-we-lower-our-lead-score-threshold-in-order-to-send-more-mqls-to-aes/ 1/6
The company is actively launching new products, testing new markets and/or
segments where they don’t have historical data and need to gain traction
The company is investing in more top of funnel, with lower MQL rates, but
steady opportunity generation and win rates, so the company can test the
waters to drive additional pipeline generation
To decide whether this is the right path for your company, there are relationships
between variables to consider: lead quality to win rate, and capacity to sales
effort. While we are proposing a quantitative approach to answering this
question, you will want to make sure you collect qualitative feedback from the go-
to-market (GTM) team to validate that this is the best path forward.
Lead quality to win rate
To begin, consider that the win rate improves with lead quality as illustrated in
Figure 1. For very poor lead quality, the win rate is nearly zero. At some point, the
win rate improves rapidly. Ultimately, the win rate slows and saturates due to
diminishing marginal returns on lead quality; even CxOs who submit demo
requests will not close at 100%.
Figure 1: Actual Win Rate vs. Lead Quality
If the company doesn’t have strong analytical talent, it can identify the optimal
trade-off of lead quality to win rate by testing a “null hypothesis”
. The “null
hypothesis” method would be to leverage A/B testing and a best guess for volume
increase: Increase the leads for a particular territory while keeping the other
territory constant. Measure the win rate impact and compare. Other
measurements to validate lead quality are: the conversion rate of leads to
pipeline, average sales cycle, and ACV. For more precision on what point on the
“S” curve is most optimal, we use math!
Since the math can get a bit tricky with the curve in Figure 1, we can use a
piecewise linear estimate to approximate the relationship between win rate and
lead quality. In Figure 2, the win rate increases in steps from w3 to w2 to w1. A
good way to think of this is that each step represents a different combination of
lead source (demo request vs. content download), persona (VP vs. Director), and
overall engagement (repeat- vs. first-time visitor).
BUILDING LOCALL Y , SCALING GLOBALL Y
Navigating international expansion for European founders
VIEW REPORT
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”
, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze
site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. We use cookies on this site to enhance your experience. Visit our Privacy
Policy for more info.
8/15/24, 8:56 PM Quantity vs. Quality: Should We Lower Our Lead Score Threshold in Order to Send More MQLs to AEs? | Insight Partners
https://www.insightpartners.com/ideas/quantity-vs-quality-should-we-lower-our-lead-score-threshold-in-order-to-send-more-mqls-to-aes/ 2/6
Figure 2: Piecewise Approximation of Win Rate vs. Lead Quality
Imagine a company only serves AEs a quantity of leads (L1) of the highest quality
(w1) with a fixed average annual recurring revenue (ARR) for closed won deals
(A). Then, the total ARR booked is:
𝐴 ∗ 𝑤 1∗ 𝐿 1
Now, assume the company relaxes the inbound lead score threshold and allows
some quantity (L2) of leads to flow to reps with the next tier of quality (w2).
Though the win rate is lower, let’s assume the average ARR is still A.
We need to add two practical complications since salespeople have limits on sales
effort and capacity.
Sales effort to capacity
Turning up the volume on lead gen is great as long as the company has the
capacity to execute. If the pipeline exceeds its ability to execute, the company is
then faced with aging leads and deals, over-whelmed sellers, wasted marketing
funds, and potentially dissatisfied buyers.
When testing the influx of leads in the test territory (as mentioned in the “null
hypothesis” above), capturing the # of leads and opportunities worked by a rep
will help with calculating a rep’s workload. Does the lead and opportunity influx
result in greater booking and personal attainment? Simple pattern analysis may
work if the company is testing for smaller teams.
It is important to understand how sales effort or “energy” is factored in calculating
capacity to execute. The first complication is that handling L2 additional
opportunities may lower the win rate on the L1 leads from w1 to (w1 – e). We will
refer to ‘e’ as the energy factor since doing more in the same amount of time
typically results in lower performance.
The second complication is that reps may have an upper bound to the number of
opportunities they can handle. By adding L2 leads, the number of leads the rep
can handle may drop from L1 to (L1 – c * L2). Here, c is a capacity factor.
Putting everything together, the company should let through some amount of
lower quality leads if doing so will result in increased overall bookings. This can be
expressed as:
𝐴 (𝑤 1∗ 𝐿 1)≤𝐴 [(𝑤 1−𝑒 )(𝐿 1−𝑐 ∗ 𝐿 2)+(𝑤 2∗ 𝐿 2)]
BUILDING LOCALL Y , SCALING GLOBALL Y
Navigating international expansion for European founders
VIEW REPORT
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”
, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze
site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. We use cookies on this site to enhance your experience. Visit our Privacy
Policy for more info.
8/15/24, 8:56 PM Quantity vs. Quality: Should We Lower Our Lead Score Threshold in Order to Send More MQLs to AEs? | Insight Partners
https://www.insightpartners.com/ideas/quantity-vs-quality-should-we-lower-our-lead-score-threshold-in-order-to-send-more-mqls-to-aes/ 3/6
In our experience, AEs are more energy limited than capacity limited. Setting ‘c’
to zero and solving for the energy factor, we find:
𝑒 ≤ 𝑤 2(𝐿 2/𝐿 1)
In words, we can feed reps lower scoring leads if the reduction in the win rate (e)
of the original higher quality is less than the win rate of the lower quality leads
(w2) times the ratio of the lower quality leads (L2) to the original higher quality
leads (L1).
Example scenarios
By way of example, assume AEs normally get 50 leads per quarter (L1) with a
win rate of 30% (w1). Now, we’d like to send reps 10 additional leads per quarter
(L2) but these leads have an expected win rate of 20% (w2). We should do so if
we can expect the win rate on the original leads to drop by no more than 4%
(from 30% to 26%):
𝑒 ≤ 0.2(10/50)
𝑒 ≤4%
It is hard to know in advance exactly how large the adverse impact will be on the
original win rate. However, we encourage companies to pilot (A/B test) this to
determine the actual impact on rep productivity.
Notably, our example assumed that the quality was relatively high for the
additional (L2) leads. If the L1 leads are VPs with inbound demo requests and the
L2 leads are Directors from the same source, then this is a safe assumption.
However, if the L2 leads are demo requests from Managers or even prospects
who attended thought-leadership webinars or downloaded content, then w2
would be much lower. As w2 goes down, e goes down which means that we
would not tolerate even a small negative impact on the win rate (w1) of the high-
quality leads.
Beyond rep energy and capacity, we also need to consider the overall economics
of the business under the assumption that reps should at least be able to achieve
quota. To explore this, let’s assume we are thinking about hiring an incremental
AE to exclusively handle the Tier 2 (w2) leads instead of sending these leads to
the existing reps.
Continuing our prior example, AEs win 60 deals per year given 200 leads and a
win rate of 30%. These are typical numbers for SMB so let’s further assume a
deal size of $12.5K which yields bookings of $750K per year. Assuming a 5x
quota:on-target-earnings (OTE) ratio, their compensation is $150K. Notably, the
5x quota:OTE ratio is the key link to the economics of the business since the
percentage of bookings paid to AEs is usually the largest component of customer
acquisition cost (CAC) which in turn directly impacts cash flow and profit.
Applying the same math with a 20% win rate, bookings would be $500K and OTE
would be $100K. With current B2B OTEs for entry-level AEs starting at $120K,
hiring reps to pursue the lower-quality leads in this example does not seem
feasible.
BUILDING LOCALL Y , SCALING GLOBALL Y
Navigating international expansion for European founders
VIEW REPORT
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”
, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze
site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. We use cookies on this site to enhance your experience. Visit our Privacy
Policy for more info.
8/15/24, 8:56 PM Quantity vs. Quality: Should We Lower Our Lead Score Threshold in Order to Send More MQLs to AEs? | Insight Partners
https://www.insightpartners.com/ideas/quantity-vs-quality-should-we-lower-our-lead-score-threshold-in-order-to-send-more-mqls-to-aes/ 4/6
Always test before “going live”
As we explored, the decision on whether to lower the lead score threshold in order
to provide additional opportunities to reps depends on energy for a closed won,
and capacity, as well as the practical economics of the business. Regardless of
whether a company leverages math or simply tests in real-time, it boils down to
relationships between win rate, lead quantity, and average ARR. Companies
should always pilot (A/B test) rather than go full scale should they wish to explore
the economic impact of (slightly) lower quality lead sources with the caveat that
the lowest quality leads, content downloads, for example, are almost never worth
pursuing and should instead be nurtured via marketing automation to ensure it
passes the quality threshold. As long as leaders across the organizations accept
that funnel performance may decline, and there is a clear process in place to
measure the fluctuations, then companies should regularly look to always test the
limits of their lead scoring model.
